Environment_Setups_Data_Science_Garuda_Linux/Instructions.md, before:

# Instructions for the setups of Garuda Linux in Data science


## Uprade the System after the Installation

* After installation, just reboot and go into Garuda for the first time.
* The assistant will ask to refresh the `mirrorlists` for the downloads of
  related packages.
* Thus, the system will ask whether to upgrade the system, and just press "yes"
  to wait for the upgrade process to complete. During the process, users are
  requeted to input the password to authorize `sudo`. On the other hand, the
  responses to input `y` are also required to put the process forward.
* After the above upgrade process, the system also suggest installing the
  softwares. It is advised to NOT doing this step at this moment and reboot the
  system at first.
* Since Garuda Linux is the Arch based system which will provide rolling updates
  regularly. It is suggested to run the following before the installation of
  other softwares.
  ```
  sudo pacman -Syu
  ```
  Sometime, the errors about `timeshift` not working may show up to indicate
  errors. The simple workaround is to input
  ```
  sudo SKIP_AUTOSNAP=1 pacman -Syu
  ```
* Currently, `Add/Remove Software` no longer launches due to the change of 
  `pacman 6.0`. The fastest way to figure it out is to reinstall `libalpm` library:
  ```
  sudo pacman -Syu libalpm12 
  ```  
  Please reboot and check it out: https://forum.garudalinux.org/t/problem-with-updates/5288.
  However, the GUI for add/remove softwares is not important since the general 
  Linux users should not care using terminal.

## Installation of Brave Browser

* Use `pacman` to install [Brave Browser](https://brave.com/) which focuses on
  privacy:
  ```
  sudo pacman -S brave-bin
  ```
* After installation, just set it as default browser by revising `~/.profile`:
  ```
  export BROWSER=brave
  ```
* Please be sure to install `brave-bin` instead of `brave` since some hidden errors may occur. For example, I find the
  blocking functions not work for `brave` but normal for `brave-bin`. Please also check the discussion: https://forum.garudalinux.org/t/brave-crashing-every-few-minutes/1975. 

## Installation of LibreOffice

* Just also use `pacman` for installation:
  ```
  sudo pacman -S libreoffice
  ```
  and select the stable version of [libreoffice-still](https://archlinux.org/packages/?name=libreoffice-still).
* On the other hand, `tex` is always helpful for math writing, so the following
  plugin is also installed:
  ```
  sudo pacman -S libreoffice-extension-texmaths
  ```
* In terms of the pdf reader, `zathura` is a good choice and please check: https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Zathura
  ```
  sudo pacman -S zathura
  ```
  and other plugins are available to enhance its functions: https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Zathura

## Remarks for Chinese Language

* Just inspired by [Garuda Linux on a 2013 15 MBP](https://medium.com/codex/garuda-linux-on-a-2013-15-mbp-df47f162b961)
  I just install the following to avoid weird symbols in Chinese:
  ```
  sudo pacman -S wqy-microhei wqy-microhei-lite wqy-bitmapfont wqy-zenhei ttf-arphic-ukai ttf-arphic-uming adobe-source-han-sans-cn-fonts adobe-source-han-serif-cn-fonts noto-fonts-cjk
  ```
* On the other hand, Chinese input method is also needed to setup, since I just
  chose `American English` as the default language when installing Garuda.
  * First install `ibus` related softwares by
    ```
    sudo pacman -S ibus
    sudo pacman -S ibus-rime
    sudo pacman -S rime-wubi
    ```
  * After the installation, then just put the following at the end of
    `~/.profile`:
    ```
    export GTK_IM_MODULE=ibus
    export XMODIFIERS=@im=ibus
    export QT_IM_MODULE=ibus
    ibus-daemon -d -x
    ```
    and then reboot.
  * Now one can find `ibus preferences` in `settings`, and then tries adding
    `rime` input method from `Chinese`.
  * On the other hand, just add the following `default.custom.yaml` file to
    `~/.config/ibus/rime/`:
    ```
    # default.custom.yaml
    # save it to: 
    #   ~/.config/ibus/rime  (linux)
    #   ~/Library/Rime       (macos)
    #   %APPDATA%\Rime       (windows)

    patch:
      schema_list:
        - schema: luna_pinyin          # 朙月拼音
        - schema: luna_pinyin_simp     # 朙月拼音 简化字模式
        - schema: luna_pinyin_tw       # 朙月拼音 臺灣正體模式
        - schema: terra_pinyin         # 地球拼音 dì qiú pīn yīn
        - schema: cangjie5             # 倉頡五代
        - schema: cangjie5_express     # 倉頡 快打模式
        - schema: wubi86               # 五笔86
        - schema: wubi_pinyin          # 五笔拼音混合輸入
    ```
  * Now it is ready to use it! One will find `EN` is shown in the upper right
    position, and now open any brave browser and in the address press
    `win + space` to change to `rime`. Now click the icon of `rime` and then click
    `deploy` and wait for it to complete without errors.
  * One can check the website about the usage instructions: https://rime.im/download/

## Homebrew setups

* Install `Homebrew` to manage part of the softwares and apps to replicate the
  similar experience as MacOS. The tricky point is that the instructions about
  `Homebrew` are mainly based on `bash/zsh`, but Garuda Linux use `fish` by
  default. The merits indicated by [Fish vs. Zsh vs. Bash and Why You Should 
  Switch to Fish](https://betterprogramming.pub/fish-vs-zsh-vs-bash-reasons-why-you-need-to-switch-to-fish-4e63a66687eb)
  just let me have a try on fish. However, some minor revisions of the codes
  are needed to comply with the syntax of `fish`.
* Generally speaking, the config file of `fish` is in
  `/home/.config/fish/config.fish`. One can use [micro](https://micro-editor.github.io/),
  the default editor in Garuda Linux to open such config file. It is noticed
  that `source ~/.profile` is in the file, whicn means that this file
  automatically load the setups from `~/.profile`.
* From the home page of [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/), the suggested installation
  command is
  ```
  /bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
  ```
  However, this command is NOT valid in `fish`. The revised code is
  ```
  bash
  ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
  exit
  ```
  raised by [Unable to install Homebrew + fish terminal (Mac)](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/34010513/unable-to-install-homebrew-fish-terminal-mac).
  Just temporarily go into `bash` ti execute the installation command and then
  come back to the `fish`.
* After the installation, the following steps are needed to let `brew`
  initialize everytime openning the `fish`:
  ```
  echo 'eval (/home/linuxbrew/.linuxbrew/bin/brew shellenv)' >> /home/alfredfaisam/.profile
  eval (/home/linuxbrew/.linuxbrew/bin/brew shellenv)
  ```
  inspired by https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/issues/10114.
* On the other hand, it seems that `Homebrew` will create temporary files in
  `/tmp` which may return the errors about permission. Therefore, one can add
  the following line in `~/.profile`:
  ```
  echo 'export HOMEBREW_TEMP=/var/tmp' >> /home/alfredfaisam/.profile
  ```
  inspired by https://github.com/Linuxbrew/brew/issues/923.
* Now we can shut off and then reopen the `Konsole`, and then input
  ```
  brew update
  ```
  If the process can complete without errors, then the installation of `Homebrew`
  is successful.
* Other related packages can be installed now to support the functions of
  `Homebrew`:
  ```
  sudo pacman -S base-devel
  ```
  `base-devel` is a package group that includes tools needed for building 
  (compiling and linking). It is also suggested to install the latest version of
  `gcc`:
  ```
  brew install gcc
  ```
  Up until this point, users can just use `Homebrew` as they do in MacOS.
* To be honest, currently `Homebrew` seems to target the Mac users in most of
  the time and provides limited supports for Linux users. For example, some
  errors about compilation exist for some softwares, such as [Julia](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/julia).
  Now, I just use `Homebrew` to install [`Neovim`](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/neovim)
  and [`Transmission`](https://formulae.brew.sh/cask/transmission), and they
  seem to work. One can also check https://cli-ck.io/transmission-cli-user-guide/ for the usage of 
  [`Transmission`](https://formulae.brew.sh/cask/transmission).

## Installation of Neovim

* Just use `brew` to install `Neovim`:
  ```
  brew install --HEAD luajit
  brew install --HEAD neovim
  ```
* Install `vim-plug`:
  ```
  sh -c 'curl -fLo "${XDG_DATA_HOME:-$HOME/.local/share}"/nvim/site/autoload/plug.vim --create-dirs \
       https://raw.githubusercontent.com/junegunn/vim-plug/master/plug.vim'
  ```
* Change directory to `~/.config`, just copy my suggested config folder for `Neovim` from https://github.com/AlfredSAM/medium_blogs/tree/main/Neovim_Setups_for_Data_Science/nvim
* In `Konsole`, just input
  ```
  nvim
  ```
  to go to `neovim` for the first time when one may see some errors due to the
  missing plugins. Therefore, one can just input
  ```
  :PlugInstall
  ```
  and then wait for the installation to finish.
* Just use `:q!` to quit and then reopen `nvim`, one can find that the latest
  files for `treesit` will be downloaded and compiled and the information is
  whone at the bottom of the `nvim` window. Just wait for it to complete, and
  now `nvim` is ready to use.

## Installation of Sublime Text 4

* Just follow the instructions in the homepage about the installation for the arch based system: https://www.sublimetext.com/docs/linux_repositories.html
* Install the  GPG key:
  ```
  curl -O https://download.sublimetext.com/sublimehq-pub.gpg && sudo pacman-key --add sublimehq-pub.gpg && sudo pacman-key --lsign-key 8A8F901A && rm sublimehq-pub.gpg
  ```
* Select the channel to use and the most common one is stable-x86-64:
  ```
  echo -e "\n[sublime-text]\nServer = https://download.sublimetext.com/arch/stable/x86_64" | sudo tee -a /etc/pacman.conf
  ```
* Update pacman and install Sublime Text
  ```
  sudo pacman -Syu sublime-text
  ``` 
* The recommended plugins and settings are still on the way, and please check my next blog post.
  On the other hand, the `font_face` in Garuda Linux can be set to "FantasqueSansMono Nerd Font Mono",
  which can allow for ligature in codes.
* Currently I find the bugs also raised in: https://www.reddit.com/r/kde/comments/makgyn/kde_global_menu_with_sublime/
  and it seems that several researches are still needed for these bugs. However, the general usage is still
  fine. 


## Miniconda Installation

* In terms of data science, `conda` is the common package to manage environments
  for Python or R.
* Just go to `~/Downloads`, and then download the installation package:
  ```
  wget https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
  ```
  and then install it
  ```
  bash Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
  ```
* Please note that at the end of the installation the program will ask whether
  to add `init` commands. However, even input `yes` for this prompt one can
  still find that `conda` is NOT loaded when reopening the `Konsole`. The reason
  is that the `init` commands are only added to the `~/.bashrc`:
  ```
  # >>> conda initialize >>>
  # !! Contents within this block are managed by 'conda init' !!
  __conda_setup="$('/home/alfredfaisam/miniconda3/bin/conda' 'shell.bash' 'hook' 2> /dev/null)"
  if [ $? -eq 0 ]; then
      eval "$__conda_setup"
  else
      if [ -f "/home/alfredfaisam/miniconda3/etc/profile.d/conda.sh" ]; then
          . "/home/alfredfaisam/miniconda3/etc/profile.d/conda.sh"
      else
          export PATH="/home/alfredfaisam/miniconda3/bin:$PATH"
      fi
  fi
  unset __conda_setup
  # <<< conda initialize <<<
  ```
  However, Garuda Linux use `fish` by default, so the above commands are not
  effective. One can input
  ```
  /(your conda installation path)/bin/conda init fish
  ```
  and then one can find the following lines are added to
  `~/.config/fish/config.fish`:
  ```
  #>>> conda initialize >>>
  # !! Contents within this block are managed by 'conda init' !!
  eval your/path/to/anaconda3/bin/conda "shell.fish" "hook" $argv | source
  # <<< conda initialize <<<
  ```
  Now reopen the `Konsole` and then input
  ```
  conda update conda
  ```
  one can find the program can run as normal.

## Setup Conda Environments for Python and R

* It is natual to construct the separate environment for Python users: 
  https://conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/tasks/manage-environments.html
  On the other hand, `(base)` environment is usually kept clean to make sure the
  problems only affect other new built environments. Therefore, removing other
  environments is always the direct option to solve the problem and do it again.
* The relevant issue about computation efficiency using Python needs to provide
  optimized BLAS frameworks for `numpy`, and `mkl` is the ideal choice.
  Therefore, just activate the new Python environment and then use the 
  following command to install `numpy` with `mkl` as the
  dependency:
  ```
  conda install -c conda-forge numpy libblas=3.9.0=9_mkl
  ```
  Other packages relying on `numpy` should be also optimized in terms of the
  matrix computation.
* In order for the LSP of Python to work properly, the following plugins are
  also recommended:
  ```
  pip install 'python-lsp-server[all]' python-lsp-black mypy-ls pyls-isort
  ```
* On the other hand, separate environment for R is also available. For example,
  one can construct the new environment using the following `R_4_mkl.yml`:
  ```
  name: R_4.0_mkl
  channels:
    - conda-forge
    - defaults
  dependencies:
    - python=3.8
    - conda-forge::r-base=4.1.0
    - conda-forge::libblas=3.9.0=9_mkl
  ```
  It will construct the environment using R 4.1 named **R_4.0_mkl**.
* One can also find that this yml just requires the dependency about matrix
  computation in R to also employ `mkl`. This is also another benefit to use R
  in conda environment. Sometimes, to link to `mkl` for `BLAS/LAPACK` is so
  tricky and not that flexible. However, with the help of `conda` this job can
  be made so easy.
* Also, after the setup one also needs to activate the environment and then
  install `install.packages("languageserver")` for LSP of R.

## Installation of Julia

* In MacOS, I just use `Homebrew` to install Julia by `brew install --cask julia`.
* However, the trial to install Julia using `Homebrew` in Garuda Linux fails
  and some errors exist for compilation and cmake files. Therefore, just conduct
  the installation by hand:
  ```
  mkdir ~/opt
  cd ~/opt
  wget https://julialang-s3.julialang.org/bin/linux/x64/1.6/julia-1.6.1-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
  tar -xvf julia-1.6.1-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
  ```
  Run `julia`:
  ```
  ~/opt/julia-1.6.1/bin/julia
  ```
  Furthermore, one can add the following to `$PATH`
  ```
  echo 'export PATH="$HOME/opt/julia-1.6.1/bin:$HOME/.local/bin:$PATH"' >> ~/.profile
  ```
  so that only inputting `julia` can run the program.
* Julia has its own `env` setups for different projects, and please check https://towardsdatascience.com/how-to-setup-project-environments-in-julia-ec8ae73afe9c

Commit message:

Add instructions for kitty emulator.

Environment_Setups_Data_Science_Garuda_Linux/Instructions.md, after:

# Instructions for the setups of Garuda Linux in Data science


## Uprade the System after the Installation

* After installation, just reboot and go into Garuda for the first time.
* The assistant will ask to refresh the `mirrorlists` for the downloads of
  related packages.
* Thus, the system will ask whether to upgrade the system, and just press "yes"
  to wait for the upgrade process to complete. During the process, users are
  requeted to input the password to authorize `sudo`. On the other hand, the
  responses to input `y` are also required to put the process forward.
* After the above upgrade process, the system also suggest installing the
  softwares. It is advised to NOT doing this step at this moment and reboot the
  system at first.
* Since Garuda Linux is the Arch based system which will provide rolling updates
  regularly. It is suggested to run the following before the installation of
  other softwares.
  ```
  sudo pacman -Syu
  ```
  Sometime, the errors about `timeshift` not working may show up to indicate
  errors. The simple workaround is to input
  ```
  sudo SKIP_AUTOSNAP=1 pacman -Syu
  ```
* Currently, `Add/Remove Software` no longer launches due to the change of 
  `pacman 6.0`. The fastest way to figure it out is to reinstall `libalpm` library:
  ```
  sudo pacman -Syu libalpm12 
  ```  
  Please reboot and check it out: https://forum.garudalinux.org/t/problem-with-updates/5288.
  However, the GUI for add/remove softwares is not important since the general 
  Linux users should not care using terminal.

## Installation of Brave Browser

* Use `pacman` to install [Brave Browser](https://brave.com/) which focuses on
  privacy:
  ```
  sudo pacman -S brave-bin
  ```
* After installation, just set it as default browser by revising `~/.profile`:
  ```
  export BROWSER=brave
  ```
* Please be sure to install `brave-bin` instead of `brave` since some hidden 
  errors may occur. For example, I find the blocking functions not work for
  `brave` but normal for `brave-bin`. Please also check the discussion:
  https://forum.garudalinux.org/t/brave-crashing-every-few-minutes/1975. 

## Installation of [kitty](https://sw.kovidgoyal.net/kitty/)

* In Garuda Linux, it seems to encourage to use `konsole` for shell commands.
  However, when coding in `konsole` I just discover some latency issues when
  using `neovim`. On the other hand, `alacritty` is a fast, cross-platform,
  OpenGL terminal emulator and installed in Garuda by default. It seems to a
  better choice than `konsole`, but it seems not support ligature currently
  which I really prefer: https://github.com/alacritty/alacritty/issues/50.
  Therefore, [kitty](https://sw.kovidgoyal.net/kitty/) is just a good choice.
* Kitty is also fast and GPU-based terminal emulator with tmux-like features
  embedded, and it can support ligature well if the appropriate fonts are set:
  ```
  sudo pacman -S kitty
  ```
* Please also refer to my setup file `kitty.conf` which should be put in
  `~/.config/kitty`. I just choose `Firacode Nerd Font Mono` for ligature.
* In MacOS, I just use kitty for a while but the vertically misaligned issues
  for the `nerd` fonts seem not to be figured out for a while, so I just switch
  back to iterm2: https://github.com/kovidgoyal/kitty/issues/2022. Of coz,
  without using the `nerd` fonts only ligature and maybe some unicode icons
  cannot work. Therefore, users who do not bother the beauty of the codes can
  still use kitty under MacOS.

## Installation of LibreOffice

* Just also use `pacman` for installation:
  ```
  sudo pacman -S libreoffice
  ```
  and select the stable version of [libreoffice-still](https://archlinux.org/packages/?name=libreoffice-still).
* On the other hand, `tex` is always helpful for math writing, so the following
  plugin is also installed:
  ```
  sudo pacman -S libreoffice-extension-texmaths
  ```
* In terms of the pdf reader, `zathura` is a good choice and please check: https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Zathura
  ```
  sudo pacman -S zathura
  ```
  and other plugins are available to enhance its functions: https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Zathura

## Remarks for Chinese Language

* Just inspired by [Garuda Linux on a 2013 15 MBP](https://medium.com/codex/garuda-linux-on-a-2013-15-mbp-df47f162b961)
  I just install the following to avoid weird symbols in Chinese:
  ```
  sudo pacman -S wqy-microhei wqy-microhei-lite wqy-bitmapfont wqy-zenhei ttf-arphic-ukai ttf-arphic-uming adobe-source-han-sans-cn-fonts adobe-source-han-serif-cn-fonts noto-fonts-cjk
  ```
* On the other hand, Chinese input method is also needed to setup, since I just
  chose `American English` as the default language when installing Garuda.
  * First install `ibus` related softwares by
    ```
    sudo pacman -S ibus
    sudo pacman -S ibus-rime
    sudo pacman -S rime-wubi
    ```
  * After the installation, then just put the following at the end of
    `~/.profile`:
    ```
    export GTK_IM_MODULE=ibus
    export XMODIFIERS=@im=ibus
    export QT_IM_MODULE=ibus
    ibus-daemon -d -x
    ```
    and then reboot.
  * Now one can find `ibus preferences` in `settings`, and then tries adding
    `rime` input method from `Chinese`.
  * On the other hand, just add the following `default.custom.yaml` file to
    `~/.config/ibus/rime/`:
    ```
    # default.custom.yaml
    # save it to: 
    #   ~/.config/ibus/rime  (linux)
    #   ~/Library/Rime       (macos)
    #   %APPDATA%\Rime       (windows)

    patch:
      schema_list:
        - schema: luna_pinyin          # 朙月拼音
        - schema: luna_pinyin_simp     # 朙月拼音 简化字模式
        - schema: luna_pinyin_tw       # 朙月拼音 臺灣正體模式
        - schema: terra_pinyin         # 地球拼音 dì qiú pīn yīn
        - schema: cangjie5             # 倉頡五代
        - schema: cangjie5_express     # 倉頡 快打模式
        - schema: wubi86               # 五笔86
        - schema: wubi_pinyin          # 五笔拼音混合輸入
    ```
  * Now it is ready to use it! One will find `EN` is shown in the upper right
    position, and now open any brave browser and in the address press
    `win + space` to change to `rime`. Now click the icon of `rime` and then click
    `deploy` and wait for it to complete without errors.
  * One can check the website about the usage instructions: https://rime.im/download/

## Homebrew setups

* Install `Homebrew` to manage part of the softwares and apps to replicate the
  similar experience as MacOS. The tricky point is that the instructions about
  `Homebrew` are mainly based on `bash/zsh`, but Garuda Linux use `fish` by
  default. The merits indicated by [Fish vs. Zsh vs. Bash and Why You Should 
  Switch to Fish](https://betterprogramming.pub/fish-vs-zsh-vs-bash-reasons-why-you-need-to-switch-to-fish-4e63a66687eb)
  just let me have a try on fish. However, some minor revisions of the codes
  are needed to comply with the syntax of `fish`.
* Generally speaking, the config file of `fish` is in
  `/home/.config/fish/config.fish`. One can use [micro](https://micro-editor.github.io/),
  the default editor in Garuda Linux to open such config file. It is noticed
  that `source ~/.profile` is in the file, which means that this file
  automatically load the setups from `~/.profile`.
* From the home page of [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/), the suggested installation
  command is
  ```
  /bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
  ```
  However, this command is NOT valid in `fish`. The revised code is
  ```
  bash
  ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
  exit
  ```
  raised by [Unable to install Homebrew + fish terminal (Mac)](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/34010513/unable-to-install-homebrew-fish-terminal-mac).
  Just temporarily go into `bash` ti execute the installation command and then
  come back to the `fish`.
* After the installation, the following steps are needed to let `brew`
  initialize everytime openning the `fish`:
  ```
  echo 'eval (/home/linuxbrew/.linuxbrew/bin/brew shellenv)' >> /home/alfredfaisam/.profile
  eval (/home/linuxbrew/.linuxbrew/bin/brew shellenv)
  ```
  inspired by https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/issues/10114.
* On the other hand, it seems that `Homebrew` will create temporary files in
  `/tmp` which may return the errors about permission. Therefore, one can add
  the following line in `~/.profile`:
  ```
  echo 'export HOMEBREW_TEMP=/var/tmp' >> /home/alfredfaisam/.profile
  ```
  inspired by https://github.com/Linuxbrew/brew/issues/923.
* Now we can shut off and then reopen the `Konsole`, and then input
  ```
  brew update
  ```
  If the process can complete without errors, then the installation of `Homebrew`
  is successful.
* Other related packages can be installed now to support the functions of
  `Homebrew`:
  ```
  sudo pacman -S base-devel
  ```
  `base-devel` is a package group that includes tools needed for building 
  (compiling and linking). It is also suggested to install the latest version of
  `gcc`:
  ```
  brew install gcc
  ```
  Up until this point, users can just use `Homebrew` as they do in MacOS.
* To be honest, currently `Homebrew` seems to target the Mac users in most of
  the time and provides limited supports for Linux users. For example, some
  errors about compilation exist for some softwares, such as [Julia](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/julia).
  Now, I just use `Homebrew` to install [`Neovim`](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/neovim)
  and [`Transmission`](https://formulae.brew.sh/cask/transmission), and they
  seem to work. One can also check https://cli-ck.io/transmission-cli-user-guide/ for the usage of 
  [`Transmission`](https://formulae.brew.sh/cask/transmission).

## Installation of Neovim

* Just use `brew` to install `Neovim`:
  ```
  brew install --HEAD luajit
  brew install --HEAD neovim
  ```
* Install `vim-plug`:
  ```
  sh -c 'curl -fLo "${XDG_DATA_HOME:-$HOME/.local/share}"/nvim/site/autoload/plug.vim --create-dirs \
       https://raw.githubusercontent.com/junegunn/vim-plug/master/plug.vim'
  ```
* Change directory to `~/.config`, just copy my suggested config folder for `Neovim` from https://github.com/AlfredSAM/medium_blogs/tree/main/Neovim_Setups_for_Data_Science/nvim
* In `Konsole`, just input
  ```
  nvim
  ```
  to go to `neovim` for the first time when one may see some errors due to the
  missing plugins. Therefore, one can just input
  ```
  :PlugInstall
  ```
  and then wait for the installation to finish.
* Just use `:q!` to quit and then reopen `nvim`, one can find that the latest
  files for `treesit` will be downloaded and compiled and the information is
  shown at the bottom of the `nvim` window. Just wait for it to complete, and
  now `nvim` is ready to use.

## Installation of Sublime Text 4

* Just follow the instructions in the homepage about the installation for the arch based system: https://www.sublimetext.com/docs/linux_repositories.html
* Install the  GPG key:
  ```
  curl -O https://download.sublimetext.com/sublimehq-pub.gpg && sudo pacman-key --add sublimehq-pub.gpg && sudo pacman-key --lsign-key 8A8F901A && rm sublimehq-pub.gpg
  ```
* Select the channel to use and the most common one is stable-x86-64:
  ```
  echo -e "\n[sublime-text]\nServer = https://download.sublimetext.com/arch/stable/x86_64" | sudo tee -a /etc/pacman.conf
  ```
* Update pacman and install Sublime Text
  ```
  sudo pacman -Syu sublime-text
  ``` 
* The recommended plugins and settings are still on the way, and please check my next blog post.
  On the other hand, the `font_face` in Garuda Linux can be set to "FantasqueSansMono Nerd Font Mono",
  which can allow for ligature in codes.
* Currently I find the bugs also raised in: https://www.reddit.com/r/kde/comments/makgyn/kde_global_menu_with_sublime/
  and it seems that several researches are still needed for these bugs. However, the general usage is still
  fine. 


## Miniconda Installation

* In terms of data science, `conda` is the common package to manage environments
  for Python or R.
* Just go to `~/Downloads`, and then download the installation package:
  ```
  wget https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
  ```
  and then install it
  ```
  bash Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
  ```
* Please note that at the end of the installation the program will ask whether
  to add `init` commands. However, even input `yes` for this prompt one can
  still find that `conda` is NOT loaded when reopening the `Konsole`. The reason
  is that the `init` commands are only added to the `~/.bashrc`:
  ```
  # >>> conda initialize >>>
  # !! Contents within this block are managed by 'conda init' !!
  __conda_setup="$('/home/alfredfaisam/miniconda3/bin/conda' 'shell.bash' 'hook' 2> /dev/null)"
  if [ $? -eq 0 ]; then
      eval "$__conda_setup"
  else
      if [ -f "/home/alfredfaisam/miniconda3/etc/profile.d/conda.sh" ]; then
          . "/home/alfredfaisam/miniconda3/etc/profile.d/conda.sh"
      else
          export PATH="/home/alfredfaisam/miniconda3/bin:$PATH"
      fi
  fi
  unset __conda_setup
  # <<< conda initialize <<<
  ```
  However, Garuda Linux use `fish` by default, so the above commands are not
  effective. One can input
  ```
  /(your conda installation path)/bin/conda init fish
  ```
  and then one can find the following lines are added to
  `~/.config/fish/config.fish`:
  ```
  #>>> conda initialize >>>
  # !! Contents within this block are managed by 'conda init' !!
  eval your/path/to/anaconda3/bin/conda "shell.fish" "hook" $argv | source
  # <<< conda initialize <<<
  ```
  Now reopen the `Konsole` and then input
  ```
  conda update conda
  ```
  one can find the program can run as normal.

## Setup Conda Environments for Python and R

* It is natual to construct the separate environment for Python users: 
  https://conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/tasks/manage-environments.html
  On the other hand, `(base)` environment is usually kept clean to make sure the
  problems only affect other new built environments. Therefore, removing other
  environments is always the direct option to solve the problem and do it again.
* The relevant issue about computation efficiency using Python needs to provide
  optimized BLAS frameworks for `numpy`, and `mkl` is the ideal choice.
  Therefore, just activate the new Python environment and then use the 
  following command to install `numpy` with `mkl` as the
  dependency:
  ```
  conda install -c conda-forge numpy libblas=3.9.0=9_mkl
  ```
  Other packages relying on `numpy` should be also optimized in terms of the
  matrix computation.
* In order for the LSP of Python to work properly, the following plugins are
  also recommended:
  ```
  pip install 'python-lsp-server[all]' python-lsp-black mypy-ls pyls-isort
  ```
* On the other hand, separate environment for R is also available. For example,
  one can construct the new environment using the following `R_4_mkl.yml`:
  ```
  name: R_4.0_mkl
  channels:
    - conda-forge
    - defaults
  dependencies:
    - python=3.8
    - conda-forge::r-base=4.1.0
    - conda-forge::libblas=3.9.0=9_mkl
  ```
  It will construct the environment using R 4.1 named **R_4.0_mkl**.
* One can also find that this yml just requires the dependency about matrix
  computation in R to also employ `mkl`. This is also another benefit to use R
  in conda environment. Sometimes, to link to `mkl` for `BLAS/LAPACK` is so
  tricky and not that flexible. However, with the help of `conda` this job can
  be made so easy.
* Also, after the setup one also needs to activate the environment and then
  install `install.packages("languageserver")` for LSP of R.

## Installation of Julia

* In MacOS, I just use `Homebrew` to install Julia by `brew install --cask julia`.
* However, the trial to install Julia using `Homebrew` in Garuda Linux fails
  and some errors exist for compilation and cmake files. Therefore, just conduct
  the installation by hand:
  ```
  mkdir ~/opt
  cd ~/opt
  wget https://julialang-s3.julialang.org/bin/linux/x64/1.6/julia-1.6.1-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
  tar -xvf julia-1.6.1-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
  ```
  Run `julia`:
  ```
  ~/opt/julia-1.6.1/bin/julia
  ```
  Furthermore, one can add the following to `$PATH`
  ```
  echo 'export PATH="$HOME/opt/julia-1.6.1/bin:$HOME/.local/bin:$PATH"' >> ~/.profile
  ```
  so that only inputting `julia` can run the program.
* Julia has its own `env` setups for different projects, and please check https://towardsdatascience.com/how-to-setup-project-environments-in-julia-ec8ae73afe9c
